{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Escape filter for electron-track Compton imaging system\
\
Compton imaging systems have been developed based on position-sensitive semiconductor detectors for use in special nuclear material detection and homeland security. The conventional Compton imaging system requires the detection of coincidence event of multiple interactions from a single incident gamma-ray. Our approach, electron-track Compton imaging system, measures the trajectory of the Compton scattered electron to limit the back-projected cone to arc. Then, coincidence is not required anymore, which increases  the detection efficiency dramatically.\
\
650 micro thick CCD is used to measure the electron track. In homeland security application, the gamma-ray energies we are trying to measure is ~1MeV. So the Compton scattered electron has about a few hundred keV. The electron might not be fully contained in the 650 micro thick silicon device. The electron energy measured in escaping event will be off significantly from the true energy, which will increase the background in imaging domain. So what I am going to do is to use a data-driven method to develop a filter to reject the escaping events.\
 \
I have a set of simulated CCD images from GEANT4 simulation. In the simulation data, whether it is an escaping event or not is known. So I will write some methods to extract features from the image, like total energy deposition of the electron, dimension of the track. Then, build classifier and use cross-validation to validate the model.\
\
How does this project relate to python or data science? \
1) scikit-image: feature extraction\
2) scikit-learn: build classifier and cross-validate\
3) parallelism: the data set is huge. Parallelism boost up the speed\
4) tkinter: write a GUI to help visualization\
}